Autocorrected to forgotConversation opened. 10 messages. 3 messages unread.

Skip to content
Using Gmail with screen readers
23 of 76,691
FPGA question
Inbox
AI Overview
You asked Luther if ICE40HX1K FPGA suits COR24 soft CPU; Luther advised UP5K is better fit, HX1K too small.
Luther detailed iCE40 UP5K/CrossLink-NX boards and CPU porting work commitment.
Luther provided detailed guidance on generic safe subroutine calling protocol using jal instruction.
By Gemini; there may be mistakes. Learn more

Michael Wright
Mar 13, 2026, 10:20 AM (22 hours ago)
Is ICE40HX1K FPGA suitable for loading your COR24 soft cpu? I'm looking at this beginner board: > https://www.amazon.com/Nandland-Board-Development-Push-Buttons
5

Michael Wright
Mar 13, 2026, 5:43 PM (15 hours ago)
forgot to add, I blogged about my poor man's rust to cor24 translator: > https://software-wrighter-lab.github.io/2026/03/13/rabbit-hole-rust-to-unsupported-isa/

Luther Johnson
Mar 13, 2026, 6:13 PM (14 hours ago)
to me

Interrupts will be detected anytime there is a direct transfer of control: bra, brf, brt, jmp, or jal.

I see you are not using the jal instruction to call subroutines. You can see examples of how jal is used in all the examples in ./demo in the archive. To show you from an example in the code you just sent, at line 294 of uart-example.txt, you do this:

; --- function: start ---
start:
    lc      r0, 63
    ; call uart_putc
    la      r2, .Lret_3
    push    r2
    la      r2, uart_putc
    jmp     (r2)

but you should do this:

    lc      r0,63
    push    r0
    la      r0,uart_putc
    jal     r1,r0
then in uart_putc, you do this:


; --- function: uart_putc ---
uart_putc:
    mov     r1, r0
    la      r0, 0xFF0100
    ; tail call mmio_write
    la      r2, mmio_write
    jmp     (r2)
.Lfunc_end2:

but I think you should do this:

uart_putc:

    push    fp
    push    r2
    push    r1
    mov     fp,sp

    lw      r0,9(fp)
    push    r0
    la      r0,mmiowrite
    jal     r1,r0

    pop     r1
    pop     r2
    pop     fp
    jmp     (r1)

Now I see that you are doing tail calls and making other optimizations that are aware of register use, etc. Sure, you can do anything you want if it works for you, but this run-time model is the generic safe thing you can do that has the following properties:

r0 is not saved, and can be used to return a result. fp, r2, and r1 are saved and restored, so that r1 can be the return address, fp can be the the frame pointer, used in the same way in every routine, and r2 can be a "register" variable that is saved across function calls.

I think if you follow this protocol, and then limit yourself to special register use only for leaf routines, that will be a good mix of efficiency and safe simple code. Those prologues and epilogues look long but they are all one-byte instructions.

The register variations for jal were provided with this calling protocol in mind. There are three jal encodings, you can use (r0), (r1), or (r2) in the second argument, but the return address is always saved in r1.

Luther Johnson
Mar 13, 2026, 6:34 PM (14 hours ago)
to me

I see you are doing something different in mmiowrite than I thought. Maybe that's o.k. as it is, but in general, we pass arguments on the stack, and get the result back in r0. If the answer is a character or a 24-bit int, r0 has that value directly. For any other value that is not a character or an int (long, float, double, or any structure), r0 will then have a pointer to a value dedicated to the return value of that function, in statically allocated .bss. That value then needs to be copied out before that function is called again, or else the second call will overwrite the results from the first call. This may sound weird but the way the C code is generated this happens naturally, because the return value of a function is either assigned to a variable, or placed on the stack of its caller, in order to be passed as an argument to another function. So every return value does get copied out from the return value pointer, right away. Believe me, it all works, and it is the original portable C compiler that has worked out this strategy, and that's what I use.

Again, you can use any scheme you want, but I think the default scheme will save you bytes and head scratching. a quick optimization would be, if you know don't touch r2 anywhere below this routine, you could skip pushing and popping r2 in this routine. But in this default scheme, no matter what function you call, whatever registers it may or may not use, this protocol will work with the caller and callee, C-compiled code.

The easiest way to write assembly language is to write C code and compile it, then edit the result, if you want to tweak it. But you don't have my compiler yet. So for now I have to describe the protocol and show you examples.


Luther Johnson
Mar 13, 2026, 6:46 PM (14 hours ago)
to me

And if it's a leaf routine and you haven't overwritten r1, you could skip pushing and popping r1, etc. But you might want to only optiimize in this way for leaf routines, so you wouldn't have to know what might happen in any other code you call out to.





